#summary Some of the sites I'm aware of that use the timemap.js library.
#labels Featured

If you would like your site included on this list, please email the [http://groups.google.com/group/timemap-development discussion group].

== Sites using timemap.js ==

  * [http://opencontext.org/ Open Context] - A public online database of academic research data.

  * [http://blantonmuseum.org/interact/pachyderm/blanton_vases.html The Blanton Vases] - Timemap of the collection of greek vases at the Blanton Museum of Art at UT Austin.

  * [http://code.google.com/p/geodia/ GeoDia] - Archaeological timemap of the ancient Mediterranean. This was the initial inspiration for timemap.js, and is still a work in progress.

  * [http://legacy.ushahidi.com/timeline.asp Ushahidi] - The initial deployment of Ushahidi used a timemap to display events surrounding the post-election crisis in Kenya.

  * [http://www.open.ac.uk/Arts/hestia/herodotus/basic.html The Hestia Project] - Display of the History of Herodotus using the timeline to display narrative sequence, rather than chronological time.

  * [http://www.cannonade.net/timemap.php Cannonade.net WWII Timemap] - Displaying WWII events with a variety of filters.

  * [http://www.texaslegacy.org/bb/maps/maps.html The Texas Legacy Project] - A wide variety of timemaps displaying various Texas historical datasets. 

  * [http://digital.ncdcr.gov/cdm4/timemap/civil_war/index.php North Carolina Civil War Soldiers] - Displaying the stories and letters of 10 soldiers over the course of the Civil War.

  * [http://www.rihs.org/atlas/ Atlas of the Rhode Island Book Trade] - From the Rhode Island Historical Society. 

  * Global Voices: [http://threatened.globalvoicesonline.org/ Threatened Voices] and [http://transparency.globalvoicesonline.org/ Technology for Transparency] - two timemaps tracking suppression of free speech and civic engagement technology, respectively.

  *  [http://basetrack.org Basetrack 1/8] - A wordpress-based site for journalists embedded with a marine batallion in Afghanistan.


  * [http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2012/01/10000-control-systems-online/ Critical Infrastructure Vulnerabilities] - Wired story on a researcher using timemap.js to visualize vulnerabilities in industrial control systems.

  * [http://projects.latimes.com/mapping-la/neighborhoods/neighborhood/boyle-heights/crime/ L.A. Times: Mapping L.A.] - Using timemap.js to show crimes in 200+ L.A. neighborhoods.

  * Timemaps of the [http://wholemeal.co.nz/~malc/darfield-earthquake-timeline/ September 2010 Darfield, NZ earthquake] and the [http://geonet.org.nz/canterbury-quakes/timeline.html February 2011 Darfield, NZ earthquake]. The code for these applications has been [https://github.com/malclocke/darfield-earthquake-timeline released as Open Source here].

  * [http://darwin.zoology.gla.ac.uk/~rpage/flu/ H1N1 Swine Flu TimeMap] - Timemap of H1N1 cases.

  * [http://failrailsg.appspot.com/ FAILRAIL.sg] - Visualizing train service disruptions in Singapore.

  * [https://github.com/titaniumbones/Student-Timemaps/ Historical GIS tutorial] from the University of Toronto.

  * [http://www.dataviz.org/ VIDI] and [http://drupal.org/project/timelinemap Timelinemap] - Suite of Drupal data visualization plugins, including one using timemap.js.
 
  * [http://itn.co.uk/earth.html ITN Story Map] - Timemap of news items from the ITN website.

  * [http://www.dalli.it/kk/it/proj/index.html Trifolium] - Timemap of environmental projects (Italian)

  * [http://www.forumjovem.drj.azores.gov.pt/gmaps/ Forum Joven - Governo dos Acores] - Timemap of Azores Youth Forum events (Portuguese)

  * [http://sites.google.com/site/mapadofutebol/ Mapa do Futebol] - Timemap of football history (Portuguese)

  