#summary A quick list of changes necessary to upgrade to version 2.0

As described in [http://groups.google.com/group/timemap-development/browse_thread/thread/66d68669fefb86c7 this discussion thread], there are a number of architectural changes in timemap.js version 2.0. The version 2.0 branch is still in development, but this page is meant as a running list of the changes developers may encounter if they want to upgrade code using the 1.x library to 2.0.

== Dependencies ==

Version 1.x had two dependencies: the Google Maps v2 API script and the SIMILE Timeline script. Version 2.0 has different dependencies, all of which must be loaded before the timemap.js library:

  * [http://jquery.com jQuery] (my tests use v1.4.4, but earlier versions may work)
  * A map provider of your choice (I will be testing with Google v2, Google v3, Yahoo! Maps, OpenLayers, and Microsoft/Bing)
  * [http://www.mapstraction.com Mapstraction] (it's recommended that you use [https://github.com/nrabinowitz/mxn the version here], which has been customized for timemap.js support; eventually these changes may be moved into the main Mapstraction library)
  * SIMILE Timeline (it's recommended that you use one of the packed versions in the timemap.js lib/ directory)

== Build ==

Version 2.0 moves to an [http://ant.apache.org/ Apache Ant]-based build system (v.1.x used a python file). While most developers will not need to deal with this, if you are working with the development branch code, you may want to use the `build.xml` file to help compress the code, build the compressed Mapstraction library, and generate documentation. To do this, you will need to install Apache Ant and create a new `build.properties` file in the same directory as `build.xml`. The `build.properties` file should include the paths to the various source and tools needed for the build (currently Mapstraction source, jsdoc-toolkit.jar, and yuicompressor.jar). Example file contents can be found in the `build.xml` file.

== API Changes ==

The majority of the library should work with your existing code - the `TimeMap.init` API is largely unchanged. A few other differences:

  * `TimeMap#map` and `TimeMapItem#placemark` now refer to the corresponding Mapstraction objects, not to the native map provider objects. Native map and placemark objects can be accessed through `TimeMap#_map` and `TimeMapItem#_placemark`.

  * _(more to come)_